      Soil Moisture is widely known for playing a major role in determining precipitation forecasts in weather models. The dynamic between land-atmosphere water and energy exchange processes can carry a significant effect on floods, droughts, harvest season, groundwater supply, etc. (Wagner et al., 1999). Although in-situ soil moisture measurements are often used because of their accuracy, precision, and ease of access, their accessibility is often a luxury of more developed countries while others face challenges in climate and weather prediction. Satellite-based soil moisture monitoring is a promising approach to assist in weather prediction, business models, and even in developing military strategy because soil moisture can be monitored over large spatial areas and over long periods of time.
      A statistical analysis for BLENDED Soil Moisture Operational Product System (SMOPS) soil moisture data was performed by comparing in-situ data from the Soil Climate Analysis Network (SCAN). The primary objective for SMOPS is to retrieve surface soil moisture using low-frequency microwave satellite sensors to assist in decision making within various sectors such as, farming, meteorology, hydrology, water resource management, urban development, and the military. Algorithms developed in the past to increase spatial and temporal coverage of the soil moisture observations were validated and compared with ground data in the United States (Fang et. al. 2016). However, lack of uniformity creates an issue when trying to apply these products in various sectors. SCAN data were from 216 data-collecting weather stations across the United States were implemented to assess the accuracy of BLENDED soil moisture data by recording the bias, mean squared error and linear correlation for a focus time period of January 2015 to its most recent possible measurements (June 2018). Results showed that some products had significant and commendable correlations, proving the accuracy of the satellite data, however, others did not, which can be attributed either to possible ground site discrepancies over the focus time period where surface soil moisture was not being recorded or to computational error.
